Hi Abhijit



I hope you are doing well. I reviewed the results with our larger writing group and a few questions came up.



1. We see the age range for patients is 0-20. It's very unlikely that there is an infant with lupus. Can you look into this for us and let us know more about that?


I'm looking at the variable `dxdage` from the file dem_data_2020-01-31_1545.csv. Out
of the 677 individuals in the study, one has a recorded age of 0, 1 a recorded age of 1, and 11 have ages less than 5




2. The Kaplan Meyer curve looks like it is saying 65% get nephritis but it's 35% that did and 65% that did not get nephritis. Am I reading that correctly?

There are 2 Kaplan-Meier curves presented. The first one looked at individuals diagnosed with LN and looks at time till LN from SLE diagnosis. The second is what you are probably referring to.

The Kaplan-Meier curve provides the best statistical estimate of what
we would see if we observed all subjects forward over time without losing anyone,
i.e., no censoring. Unfortunately, in this case we have substantial censoring.
We lose 100 subjects after the 1st year before we observe any of them to have
nephritis, another 156 at the end of the 2nd year post diagnosis and so on. The
Kaplan-Meier curve assumes that some of these individuals will develop nephritis
later and accounts for them in the estimated curve. In the presence of censoring,
the observed number of events over a time interval is always an underestimate of
the actual number of events in that interval.

The KM curve estimates that we would see around 63% of our initial subjects have nephritis if we observed all of them for 9 years. This reflects both what we observe
and what we don't observe.

BTW, the correct spelling is Meier, not Meyer.

3. For principle 4, I know the Fischer extact test for remission of black vs non black was not statistically significant but can you give us the pvalue to report?

The p-value for the Fisher exact tes is 0.053


4. For principle 5, do we have a p-value for the change in GFR by initial stage?

0.4572 by Fisher exact test

5. For principle 6, These numbers suggest quite a few patients were on ritux + cytoxan + MMF – can we get that number for the text? (not needed in the table)

Among LN patients, there are 38 individuals who received Rituxan, Cytoxan and Cellcept

Thank you so much for your help!

Kathleen
